Mitt Romney’s second presidential run has largely focused on a single theme: Barack Obama has bungled the economy, and I’m the guy who can fix it. Romney points to his business and management expertise, honed in the boardrooms of Bain Capital and showcased by his stewardship of the Salt Lake City Olympics, to argue that his experience creating businesses and turning around flagging ones renders him the best positioned candidate to stanch the economic bleeding and put America back to work. But until now, he hasn’t seemed in too much of a hurry. The Romney campaign has been coasting, assiduously courting donors and opinion-makers, never panicking in grim news cycles and often preferring to plead its case in the op-ed pages instead of on the stump. The candidate has favored studiously casual attire, rarely engaged his rivals, and often skated over the fine print detailing how, exactly, he would engineer a turnaround of the U.S. economy.

Tuesday afternoon marked a new phase in Romney’s campaign, as the former Massachusetts governor unveiled his economic platform at a truck dealership in North Las Vegas, two days before Obama lays out his own proposals before a joint session of Congress and four days after a dismal jobs report crystallized the economic challenges ahead. Spiffed up in a jacket and tie and flanked by billboards outlining his policy proposals, Romney laid out the broad strokes of an economic agenda he said would create some 11.5 million jobs and grow the economy at an annual rate of 4% over his first four years in the White House.

The idea animating Romney’s economic policy is that the overreach of the Obama Administration, excessive regulations and high taxes have throttled the private sector’s ability to create jobs. “Growth is the answer, not government,” he told the crowd. This is, of course, standard Republican boilerplate. And for all the scorn Romney has heaped on Obama, his own economic ideas are hardly new.

Romney’s policy platform, laid out in a 160-page book, touts 59 specific prescriptions, including five bills and five executive orders he would push on his first day in office, such as directing the Cabinet to offer “ObamaCare” waivers to the states and freezing regulations imposed by his predecessor. Most of his proposals align with Republican orthodoxy. On taxes, Romney would cut the corporate rate from 35% to 25% and let companies repatriate profits, lower marginal rates for individuals, and eliminate taxes on capital gains and dividends for the middle class. He wants to increase energy production, cut non-defense discretionary spending 5% and cap it at 20% of GDP, boost trade (he calls for a “Reagan Economic Zone” of countries committed to free enterprise), cut red tape and confront China.

“We’re not going to have a trade war, but we can’t have a trade surrender either,” he said. “I’ll clamp down on the cheaters, and China’s the worst example of that.” He argued that with the adoption of any new regulation, one of similar cost should be scrapped. And he took dutiful swipes at unions, the EPA and the National Labor Relations Board, whose move to block Boeing from operating a new South Carolina plant has made it an obligatory target for any Republican who hopes to compete in the Palmetto State primary.

All of this should sound familiar. There’s little daylight between Romney’s economic policies and the ones Republican rival Jon Huntsman touted last week in his own such blueprint. (The former Utah governor, who’s been on a sustained offensive against Romney of late, fired another salvo Tuesday, releasing a spot slamming Romney’s record on job creation in Massachusetts, which ranked 47th in the country by one measure.) Romney’s proposals also dovetails with those championed by House Republicans, whose “Cut, Cap and Balance” bill to slash spending and pass a constitutional balanced-budget amendment Romney supports. And he shades many of the same facts as his Republican counterparts.

“If Mitt Romney has expressed a single original idea on the economy in the entire time he has been running for President – for the second time – you could auction it off on eBay in the rare stamp collection area,” Brad Woodhouse of the Democratic National Committee wrote in an memo which blasts Romney for “adopting the extreme policy prescriptions of the Tea Party.”

Sort of. For months, Romney has tried to polish his conservative credentials and use Tea-infused rhetoric even as he courts more moderate Republicans searching not for purest candidate but the most viable one. At Jim DeMint’s Labor Day forum in South Carolina, Romney tossed red meat to the ravenous conservative base –”I don’t think I’ve ever seen an administration who has gone further afield from the Constitution” than Obama’s, he said — but was the only candidate of the five to appear who declined to back using the 14th Amendment as a potential vehicle to overturn Roe v. Wade. (He deftly cited states’ rights as the reason why, as the L.A. Times reports.) A day earlier in New Hampshire, he made his maiden overture to the Tea Party, where his speech was greeted by protesters and boycotted by the conservative advocacy group FreedomWorks, one of many outfits who will likely never forgive him for his efforts to thin the ranks of the uninsured in Massachusetts.

In Las Vegas, a Romney redoubt (he handily won the Nevada caucus in 2008) that’s been clobbered by the recession, the former Massachusetts governor sought to appeal to voters across the political spectrum. Obama, he said, is “not a bad guy. He, uh, he just doesn’t know how the economy works.” Democrats “love America too, just like we do.”

What separates Romney from his Republican rivals, he says, is that he alone has the private-sector management experience to shepherd the U.S. economy through an increasingly competitive global marketplace. “I think to create jobs, it helps to have had a job, and I have,” he said. As Democrats often point out, Romney’s job involved the elimination of others, and his attempts to connect with the concerns of the ordinary Americans can be pretty awkward.  At one point in Tuesday’s speech, he directed the audience to Amazon.com, where he said voters can find a full-color version of his policy platform designed for the Kindle. “I don’t know if it’s free or not,” he said. “I hope so.” (Charging the middle class to read his plan for saving it would be a novel business tactic, but thankfully, you can read the document free of charge.)

During the first phase of the presidential campaign, Romney was the putative front-runner, and his top priority sometimes seemed to be proving that he was just a regular dude, albeit a very rich one. Now he has some competition of his own. In recent weeks, he’s been dislodged from the top spot in several polls by Texas Governor Rick Perry, setting up what many analysts argue will be an arduous two-man race.

Perry’s camp was quick to pounce on the speech. “As Governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney failed to create a pro-jobs environment and failed to institute many of the reforms he now claims to support,” Perry spokesman Mark Miner said in a statement Tuesday. Ben LaBolt, Obama’s 2012 press secretary, said Romney’s plan paid lip service to protecting the middle class, but would instead “tip the scales against hard-working Americans.”

Romney calls his a “practical” approach developed through his decades of experience in competitive markets, rather than theory cribbed from the halls of academia. And yet, he had help from a roster of brainy policy advisers, including Jim Talent, a former Republican Senator from Missouri; Greg Mankiw, a Harvard professor and former chief of George W. Bush’s Council of Economic Advisers; and Mankiw’s successor at Bush’s CEA, Glenn Hubbard, a Columbia professor. The presidential brain trust and Tuesday’s slick economic presentation are characteristic of Romney’s campaign style: He’s always been good at looking the part.




President Barack Obama unveiled his vision for immigration reform in a speech on Tuesday afternoon in Las Vegas, Nev., telling Congress that he will send them his own bill and call for a vote if they don't move fast.
"If Congress is unable to move forward in a timely fashion, I will send up a bill based on my proposal and insist that they vote on it right away," Obama said to applause from students at Del Sol High School.
"It looks like there's a genuine desire to get this done soon, and that's very encouraging," Obama said, mentioning a blueprint put forward by a bipartisan group of eight senators on Monday. "But this time action must follow."
Obama's speech was the latest move in a chess match between the White House and some Republicans in Congress to craft an outline for reform that can both be enacted into law while meeting the expectataions of the growing population of Hispanic voters who now overwhelmingly favor Democrats.
Some Republicans want to support immigration reform in part to combat the party's demographic challenges, but the more involved the president is with the bill, the politically riskier it becomes to support it.
In his speech, Obama laid out "markers" for reform, saying any comprehensive immigration bill must give most of the nation's 11 million illegal immigrants a chance to earn their citizenship gradually if they pay a fine, learn English and pass a background check. Immigrants would also have to get to "the back of the line," which means people who have already applied for green cards would have their applications processed first.
The president's bill would also include an employment verification system, more border security and a revamping of the legal immigration system to provide more visas for top graduates of U.S. universities and to reduce lengthy wait times for visas for relatives of U.S. citizens.
The president mentioned the blueprint for reform laid out by senators including rising Republican star Marco Rubio of Florida and John McCain of Arizona, Obama's 2008 GOP presidential rival.
The principles of that outline "are very much in line with the principles I’ve proposed and campaigned on for the last few years," Obama said.
The senators pre-empted Obama's speech by a day to release a blueprint that differs from Obama's earlier immigration proposal in some respects.
Both Obama and the senators agree that the nation's illegal immigrants should be given a chance to legalize and eventually become citizens if they meet certain conditions, but the senators' bill includes a spate of border security requirements that must go into effect before the immigrants are eligible for green cards. Rubio said on Tuesday that he will not sign onto a bill that does not include these border enforcement triggers.
Another potential difference between the plans is that the president believes same-sex partners should be able to sponsor their immigrant husband or wife for citizenship in the same way heterosexual married couples can do now. The Senate proposal does not mention same-sex couples.
Obama said he recognized that immigration is an issue that inflames "passions," but he called on Americans to remember that they belong to a nation of immigrants.
"It's easy sometimes for the discussion to take on a feeling of 'us' versus 'them,'" Obama said. "When that happens a lot of folks forget that most of us used to be them. ... Unless you’re one of the first Americans, a Native American, you came from some place else. Somebody brought you."
Welcoming immigrants has made the country stronger, he said. "That's how we will ensure this century is the same as the last, an American century, welcoming of everybody who aspires to do something more, is willing to work hard for it, is willing to pledge allegiance to our flag."
Leaders in the Republican-controlled House have not yet released a significant blueprint or proposal for immigration reform. In response to the speech, a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner urged the president to keep his distance while Congress undergoes what will likely be a lengthy legislative process to reach a final bill addressing immigration reform.
“There are a lot of ideas about how best to fix our broken immigration system. Any solution should be a bipartisan one, and we hope the president is careful not to drag the debate to the left and ultimately disrupt the difficult work that is ahead in the House and Senate," said Boehner spokesman Brendan Buck in a statement.
McCain said in a statement after Obama's speech that despite the "differences" in their approaches, he is "cautiously optimistic" that a bill will go forward.
Immigrant groups and labor organizations are rallying behind the new push for reform. AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka told Yahoo News on Tuesday that organized labor is “entirely behind” comprehensive immigration reform and will mount a “full-fledged” campaign to help drive it through Congress.


A conservative pro-immigration reform group has issued talking points to Republican lawmakers, telling them to avoid referring to the U.S. citizen children of illegal immigrants as "anchor babies" or calling for the construction of an "electric fence" on the border, among other things.
The talking points, published by BuzzFeed, went out to Republican lawmakers on the Hill as momentum builds for an immigration bill that would legalize most of the country's 11 million illegal immigrants. The memo urges lawmakers to call them "undocumented immigrants" and to avoid terms such as "aliens" or "illegals," which are seen as offensive and dehumanizing. Another phrase to avoid? "Send them all back."
"Conservatives get a bad rap when it comes to immigration reform because of a few people who say things that can be taken to be offensive," said Jennifer Korn, executive director of the Hispanic Leadership Network, the center-right group that sent the talking points on Monday. "It all means the same thing, but the way you say it matters."
Korn worked in the White House when President George W. Bush attempted to get immigration reform passed in his second term. Two bills—one in 2006, the other in 2007—died after a vocal grass-roots movement emerged in opposition to what it called "amnesty" for illegal immigrants. The amnesty tag stuck, even though both bills would have required any applicant to go through a lengthy legalization process that required him or her to meet certain requirements, like paying back taxes and a fine and learning English. Lawmakers received thousands of phone calls about the bill, Korn remembers, almost all of them strongly against reform.
Korn hopes theses talking points will help avoid the "pitfalls" she saw then.
"Right now what's really giving me heartburn is people saying 'pathway to citizenship,'" she said. "It's not a pathway to citizenship. It's 'earned legal status.' If you want conservative support you have to explain what it is so there's not this knee-jerk reaction of 'No amnesty!'"
Sen. Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida who's part of a bipartisan group of senators pushing for immigration reform, has used "earned residency" at times in interviews with conservative talk show hosts to describe what immigration reform would provide to qualifying illegal immigrants. Democrats, including Obama, often use "pathway to citizenship" to describe the bill.
Snow squalls, high winds and slippery roads led to a chain-reaction of crashes on a mile-long stretch of an interstate in Detroit Thursday, leaving at least three people dead and 20 injured.
Michigan State Police Lt. Michael Shaw said visibility was poor when the mass of crashes happened on Interstate 75 on the southwest side of the city. The injured, including children, have been taken to hospitals, Shaw said.
SUVs with smashed front ends and cars with doors hanging open sat scattered across the debris-littered highway, some crunched against jackknifed tractor-trailers and tankers.
Motorists and passengers who were able to a get out of their vehicles huddled together on the side of the road, some visibly distraught, others looking dazed. A man and woman hugged under the gray, cloud-filled skies, a pair of suitcases next to them and a bumper on the ground behind.
"We're not sure of the cause," Shaw told The Associated Press. "Some witnesses said there were white-out conditions."
More than two dozen vehicles were involved in the pileups and scores of cars and trucks not involved in crashes were stuck on the freeway behind. Shaw said it could be hours before the freeway reopened.
Greg Galuszka was driving a fuel truck along I-75 when white-out conditions quickly materialized.
"I looked on my driver's side mirror, and I could see the trucks piling up back there," Galuszka said, pointing to a mass of twisted metal where vehicles had smashed into each other a short time earlier.
"Then, when I looked in my passenger side (mirror), is when I saw the steel hauler coming up," he said. "I just said my prayers from there and said, 'Please don't hit me.'"
Shaw said many people had to be pulled from their vehicles. Numerous fire engines and ambulances were at the scene.
The crash happened as a wave of snow and strong blustery winds reduced visibility across southeastern Michigan, said Bryan Tilley, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Oakland County's White Lake Township.
"There was a pattern of snow showers moving through the area in the midmorning hours," Tilley said. Nearby Detroit Metropolitan Airport had west winds at 20 miles per hour, with gusts to 33 mph around the time of the crash. The temperature of 24 degrees was about 30 degrees colder than a day before.
The crash happened near an elevated stretch of expressway where the road surface can cool quickly and make driving hazardous, Tilley said.
A person claiming to be a pastor apparently tried to stiff a waiter on a tip, explaining that their work for God absolved them of having to leave one.
A photo of the receipt, posted to Reddit.com, shows a bill for $34.93 that included an automatic 18 percent gratuity ($6.29) above a blank space for an additional tip.
"I give God 10%," the diner wrote on the receipt, scratching out the automatic tip. "Why do you get 18?" The person then wrote "Pastor" above their signature, and an emphatic "0" where the additional tip would be.
The Reddit user who submitted the image explained in the comments section that the receipt was part of a total bill of over $200 for a party of 20, which is why the gratuity was automatically added.
“Parties up to eight ... may tip whatever they’d like, but larger parties receive an automatic gratuity," the server wrote. "It’s in the computer, it’s not something I do.”
The server added: “They had no problem with my service, and told me I was great. They just didn’t want to pay when the time came.”
Scribbling notes on receipts has become something of a trend. Earlier this month, the manager of a North Carolina Red Robin surprised an overdue pregnant woman by comping her meal.
“Once seated, a manager came up to us and started talking,” the woman's husband told Consumerist. “He was extremely friendly and jokingly asked my wife if this was her last meal before heading to the hospital."
When the check came, a note from the manager next to her portion of the bill read: "MOM 2 BEE GOOD LUC."
Barack Obama has advanced to his highest personal popularity since his first year in office, and Americans who've formed an opinion of his second inaugural address last week broadly approve of it, the latest ABC News/Washington Post poll finds.
At the same time, Obama's favorability rating is lower than that of two of the last three re-elected presidents as they started their second terms, Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan. He's in better shape compared with the third, George W. Bush.
See PDF with full results, charts and tables here.
Sixty percent of Americans now express a favorable opinion of Obama overall, up 10 points since last summer, in the heat of the presidential race. His popularity peaked at a remarkable 79 percent days before he took office four years ago, and last saw the 60s in November 2009.
Obama's approval rating for his inaugural address last week is lower - 51 percent approve in this poll, produced for ABC by Langer Research Associates, but just 24 percent disapprove, a 2-1 ratio in favor of the speech. A quarter of Americans have no opinion of it either way.
Favorability - which differs from job approval - is the most basic rating of a public figure's personal popularity. Obama's exceeds Bush's at the start of his second term by 5 percentage points, but trails Clinton's by 5 and Reagan's by 12.
Intensity of sentiment is a plus for Obama: More have a "strongly" favorable opinion of him than a strongly unfavorable one, 39 vs. 26 percent, and twice as many strongly approve of his inaugural speech as disapprove. It's the first time he's been significantly more strongly popular than unpopular since early 2010.
GROUPS - The president continues to be highly popular within his own party, with 92 percent favorability. Notably, 60 percent of independents see him favorably vs. 36 percent unfavorably, his best since his first year in office. He remains unpopular, however, with 80 percent of Republicans.
Similarly, 87 percent of liberals and 68 percent of moderates view the president positively, dropping to 34 percent of conservatives overall and just a quarter of strong conservatives.
In other groups, Obama's more popular among women than men by 9 points. And he's rated favorably by 87 percent of nonwhites, two-thirds of young adults and two-thirds of those in the lower- to middle-income brackets. By contrast, his favorability drops to 45 percent among whites - a group he lost to Mitt Romney by 20 points - and 47 percent of those with household incomes more than $100,000 a year.
The president's inaugural speech - peppered with messages appealing to his core supporters - hit home with broad majorities of Democrats, liberals and nonwhites, as well as majorities of young adults, women, moderates and lower- to middle-income Americans.
Though not majorities, significantly more approve than disapprove of Obama's address among a variety of other groups, including political independents. Whites and "somewhat" conservatives split more evenly, while "very" conservatives and Republicans disapprove by wide margins.
METHODOLOGY - This ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted by landline and cell phone Jan. 23-27, 2013, among a random national sample of 1,022 adults. Results have a margin of sampling error of 3.5 points. The survey was produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates of New York, N.Y., with sampling, data collection and tabulation by SSRS/Social Science Research Solutions of Media, Pa.
