A conservative pro-immigration reform group has issued talking points to Republican lawmakers, telling them to avoid referring to the U.S. citizen children of illegal immigrants as "anchor babies" or calling for the construction of an "electric fence" on the border, among other things.
The talking points, published by BuzzFeed, went out to Republican lawmakers on the Hill as momentum builds for an immigration bill that would legalize most of the country's 11 million illegal immigrants. The memo urges lawmakers to call them "undocumented immigrants" and to avoid terms such as "aliens" or "illegals," which are seen as offensive and dehumanizing. Another phrase to avoid? "Send them all back."
"Conservatives get a bad rap when it comes to immigration reform because of a few people who say things that can be taken to be offensive," said Jennifer Korn, executive director of the Hispanic Leadership Network, the center-right group that sent the talking points on Monday. "It all means the same thing, but the way you say it matters."
Korn worked in the White House when President George W. Bush attempted to get immigration reform passed in his second term. Two bills—one in 2006, the other in 2007—died after a vocal grass-roots movement emerged in opposition to what it called "amnesty" for illegal immigrants. The amnesty tag stuck, even though both bills would have required any applicant to go through a lengthy legalization process that required him or her to meet certain requirements, like paying back taxes and a fine and learning English. Lawmakers received thousands of phone calls about the bill, Korn remembers, almost all of them strongly against reform.
Korn hopes theses talking points will help avoid the "pitfalls" she saw then.
"Right now what's really giving me heartburn is people saying 'pathway to citizenship,'" she said. "It's not a pathway to citizenship. It's 'earned legal status.' If you want conservative support you have to explain what it is so there's not this knee-jerk reaction of 'No amnesty!'"
Sen. Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida who's part of a bipartisan group of senators pushing for immigration reform, has used "earned residency" at times in interviews with conservative talk show hosts to describe what immigration reform would provide to qualifying illegal immigrants. Democrats, including Obama, often use "pathway to citizenship" to describe the bill.
Snow squalls, high winds and slippery roads led to a chain-reaction of crashes on a mile-long stretch of an interstate in Detroit Thursday, leaving at least three people dead and 20 injured.
Michigan State Police Lt. Michael Shaw said visibility was poor when the mass of crashes happened on Interstate 75 on the southwest side of the city. The injured, including children, have been taken to hospitals, Shaw said.
SUVs with smashed front ends and cars with doors hanging open sat scattered across the debris-littered highway, some crunched against jackknifed tractor-trailers and tankers.
Motorists and passengers who were able to a get out of their vehicles huddled together on the side of the road, some visibly distraught, others looking dazed. A man and woman hugged under the gray, cloud-filled skies, a pair of suitcases next to them and a bumper on the ground behind.
"We're not sure of the cause," Shaw told The Associated Press. "Some witnesses said there were white-out conditions."
More than two dozen vehicles were involved in the pileups and scores of cars and trucks not involved in crashes were stuck on the freeway behind. Shaw said it could be hours before the freeway reopened.
Greg Galuszka was driving a fuel truck along I-75 when white-out conditions quickly materialized.
"I looked on my driver's side mirror, and I could see the trucks piling up back there," Galuszka said, pointing to a mass of twisted metal where vehicles had smashed into each other a short time earlier.
"Then, when I looked in my passenger side (mirror), is when I saw the steel hauler coming up," he said. "I just said my prayers from there and said, 'Please don't hit me.'"
Shaw said many people had to be pulled from their vehicles. Numerous fire engines and ambulances were at the scene.
The crash happened as a wave of snow and strong blustery winds reduced visibility across southeastern Michigan, said Bryan Tilley, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Oakland County's White Lake Township.
"There was a pattern of snow showers moving through the area in the midmorning hours," Tilley said. Nearby Detroit Metropolitan Airport had west winds at 20 miles per hour, with gusts to 33 mph around the time of the crash. The temperature of 24 degrees was about 30 degrees colder than a day before.
The crash happened near an elevated stretch of expressway where the road surface can cool quickly and make driving hazardous, Tilley said.
A person claiming to be a pastor apparently tried to stiff a waiter on a tip, explaining that their work for God absolved them of having to leave one.
A photo of the receipt, posted to Reddit.com, shows a bill for $34.93 that included an automatic 18 percent gratuity ($6.29) above a blank space for an additional tip.
"I give God 10%," the diner wrote on the receipt, scratching out the automatic tip. "Why do you get 18?" The person then wrote "Pastor" above their signature, and an emphatic "0" where the additional tip would be.
The Reddit user who submitted the image explained in the comments section that the receipt was part of a total bill of over $200 for a party of 20, which is why the gratuity was automatically added.
“Parties up to eight ... may tip whatever they’d like, but larger parties receive an automatic gratuity," the server wrote. "It’s in the computer, it’s not something I do.”
The server added: “They had no problem with my service, and told me I was great. They just didn’t want to pay when the time came.”
Scribbling notes on receipts has become something of a trend. Earlier this month, the manager of a North Carolina Red Robin surprised an overdue pregnant woman by comping her meal.
“Once seated, a manager came up to us and started talking,” the woman's husband told Consumerist. “He was extremely friendly and jokingly asked my wife if this was her last meal before heading to the hospital."
When the check came, a note from the manager next to her portion of the bill read: "MOM 2 BEE GOOD LUC."
Barack Obama has advanced to his highest personal popularity since his first year in office, and Americans who've formed an opinion of his second inaugural address last week broadly approve of it, the latest ABC News/Washington Post poll finds.
At the same time, Obama's favorability rating is lower than that of two of the last three re-elected presidents as they started their second terms, Bill Clinton and Ronald Reagan. He's in better shape compared with the third, George W. Bush.
See PDF with full results, charts and tables here.
Sixty percent of Americans now express a favorable opinion of Obama overall, up 10 points since last summer, in the heat of the presidential race. His popularity peaked at a remarkable 79 percent days before he took office four years ago, and last saw the 60s in November 2009.
Obama's approval rating for his inaugural address last week is lower - 51 percent approve in this poll, produced for ABC by Langer Research Associates, but just 24 percent disapprove, a 2-1 ratio in favor of the speech. A quarter of Americans have no opinion of it either way.
Favorability - which differs from job approval - is the most basic rating of a public figure's personal popularity. Obama's exceeds Bush's at the start of his second term by 5 percentage points, but trails Clinton's by 5 and Reagan's by 12.
Intensity of sentiment is a plus for Obama: More have a "strongly" favorable opinion of him than a strongly unfavorable one, 39 vs. 26 percent, and twice as many strongly approve of his inaugural speech as disapprove. It's the first time he's been significantly more strongly popular than unpopular since early 2010.
GROUPS - The president continues to be highly popular within his own party, with 92 percent favorability. Notably, 60 percent of independents see him favorably vs. 36 percent unfavorably, his best since his first year in office. He remains unpopular, however, with 80 percent of Republicans.
Similarly, 87 percent of liberals and 68 percent of moderates view the president positively, dropping to 34 percent of conservatives overall and just a quarter of strong conservatives.
In other groups, Obama's more popular among women than men by 9 points. And he's rated favorably by 87 percent of nonwhites, two-thirds of young adults and two-thirds of those in the lower- to middle-income brackets. By contrast, his favorability drops to 45 percent among whites - a group he lost to Mitt Romney by 20 points - and 47 percent of those with household incomes more than $100,000 a year.
The president's inaugural speech - peppered with messages appealing to his core supporters - hit home with broad majorities of Democrats, liberals and nonwhites, as well as majorities of young adults, women, moderates and lower- to middle-income Americans.
Though not majorities, significantly more approve than disapprove of Obama's address among a variety of other groups, including political independents. Whites and "somewhat" conservatives split more evenly, while "very" conservatives and Republicans disapprove by wide margins.
METHODOLOGY - This ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted by landline and cell phone Jan. 23-27, 2013, among a random national sample of 1,022 adults. Results have a margin of sampling error of 3.5 points. The survey was produced for ABC News by Langer Research Associates of New York, N.Y., with sampling, data collection and tabulation by SSRS/Social Science Research Solutions of Media, Pa.

